GraphQL is a new API standard that provides a more efficient, powerful and flexible alternative to REST. At its core, GraphQL enables declarative data fetching where a client can specify exactly what data it needs from an API. Instead of multiple endpoints that return fixed data structures, a GraphQL server only exposes a single endpoint and responds with precisely the data a client asked for.

GraphQL has been released only as a specification. This means that GraphQL is in fact not more than a [long document](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/) that describes in detail the behaviour of a GraphQL server.

GraphQL is particularly great for frontend developers since it completely eliminates many of the inconveniences and shortcomings that are experienced with REST APIs, such as over- and underfetching. Complexity is pushed to the server-side where powerful machines can take care of the heavy computation work. The client doesn’t have to know where the data that it fetches is actually coming from and can use a single, coherent and flexible API.


Improvements
============
* Less data usage
** No need to setup specific attribute nodes - underfetching
** Alternatively, no download of full data used partially - overfetching
* UI agnostic
* Data is requested by need, not by how the features were developed - so changing APIs is easier


Core concepts
=============
* SDL - Schema definition language
* Single endpoint
* Mutations - create, update, delete
* Subscriptions to events


Resolver function
=================
The payload of a GraphQL query (or mutation) consists of a set of fields. In the GraphQL server implementation, each of these fields actually corresponds to exactly one function that’s called a resolver. The sole purpose of a resolver function is to fetch the data for its field.

When the server receives a query, it will call all the functions for the fields that are specified in the query’s payload. It thus resolves the query and is able to retrieve the correct data for each field. Once all resolvers returned, the server will package data up in the format that was described by the query and send it back to the client.


GraphQL clients
===============
When fetching data from a REST API, most applications will have to go through the following steps:

1. construct and send HTTP request (e.g. with fetch in Javascript)
2. receive and parse server response
3. store data locally (either simply in memory or persistent)
4. display data in the UI

With the ideal declarative data fetching approach, a client shouldn’t be doing more than the following two steps:

1. describe data requirements
2. display data in UI

All the lower-level networking tasks as well as storing the data should be abstracted away and the declaration of data dependencies should be the dominant part.

This is precisely what GraphQL client libraries like Relay or Apollo will enable you to do. They provide the abstraction that you need to be able to focus on the important parts of your application rather than having to deal with the repetitive implementation of infrastructure.