There are two major GraphQL clients available at the moment. The first one is Apollo Client, which is a community-driven effort to build a powerful and flexible GraphQL client for all major development platforms. The second one is called Relay and it is Facebook’s homegrown GraphQL client that heavily optimizes for performance and is only available on the web.


What clients can do for us
==========================
* Wrap the HTTP requests sending the GraphQL queries for us.
* Integrate with our view - i.e. via a HOC for react or through functional reactive programming techniques.
* Caching queried results, including nester results.
* Schema static validations.

In short, you should use a GraphQL client for tasks that are repetitive and agnostic to the app you’re building. For example, being able to send queries and mutations without having to worry about lower-level networking details or maintaining a local cache. This is functionality you’ll want in any frontend application that’s talking to a GraphQL server - why build it yourself when you can use one of the amazing GraphQL clients out there?

There are a few GraphQL client libraries available. For very simple use cases (such as writing scripts), graphql-request might already be enough for your needs. However, chances are that you’re writing a somewhat larger application where you want to benefit from caching, optimistic UI updates and other handy features. In these cases, you have the choice between Apollo Client and Relay.


Apollo
======
https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client
Apollo Client is a community-driven effort to build an easy-to-understand, flexible and powerful GraphQL client. Apollo has the ambition to build one library for every major development platform that people use to build web and mobile applications. Right now there is a JavaScript client with bindings for popular frameworks like React, Angular, Ember or Vue as well as early versions of iOS and Android clients. Apollo is production-ready and has handy features like caching, optimistic UI, subscription support and many more.


Relay
=====
https://facebook.github.io/relay/
Relay is Facebook’s homegrown GraphQL client that they open-sourced alongside GraphQL in 2015. It incorporates all the learnings that Facebook gathered since they started using GraphQL in 2012. Relay is heavily optimized for performance and tries to reduce network traffic where possible. An interesting side-note is that Relay itself actually started out as a routing framework that eventually got combined with data loading responsibilities. It thus evolved into a powerful data management solution that can be used in JavaScript apps to interface with GraphQL APIs.

The performance benefits of Relay come at the cost of a notable learning curve. Relay is a pretty complex framework and understanding all its bits and pieces does require some time to really get into it. The overall situation in that respect has improved with the release of the 1.0 version, called Relay Modern, but if you’re looking for something to help you just get started with GraphQL, Relay might not be the right choice just yet.
