What GraphQL means for the server
================================
* Focus on getting the data, not how to implement specific endpoints for UIs
  - By taking care of the algorithm for responding to queries.
  - https://dev-blog.apollodata.com/graphql-explained-5844742f195e
* Can support batch processing for requests to avoid contacting the server too much by gathering all requests and choosing the right fetch strategy.

Some implementations
====================
* graphql-yoga: Fully-featured GraphQL server with focus on easy setup, performance & great developer experience. It is built on top of Express, apollo-server, graphql-js and more.
* Prisma: GraphQL database proxy that turns your database into a GraphQL API. This API provides powerful, realtime CRUD operations for your data model.
* graphql-config & GraphQL CLI: Tooling to improve various GraphQL-related worfklows.
* GraphQL bindings: A convenient way of working with a GraphQL API. The binding generates dedicated JavaScript functions for each API operation.
* GraphQL Playground: “GraphQL IDE” that allows to interactively explore the functionality of a GraphQL API by sending queries and mutations to it. It’s somewhat similar to Postman which offers comparable functionality for REST APIs. Among other things, a GraphQL Playground…
  - … auto-generates a comprehensive documentation for all available API operations.
  - … provides an editor where you can write queries, mutations & subscriptions, with auto-completion(!) and syntax highlighting.
  - … lets you easily share your API operations.

graphql-yoga is a fast and simple GraphQL server library built on top of Express.js. It comes with several features, such as out-of-the-box support for GraphQL Playgrounds and realtime GraphQL subscriptions.

The Yoga server is consuming a database layer that’s provided by Prisma. The connection between Prisma and the Yoga server is implemented via Prisma bindings.

You also learned how to leverage additional tools to improve your development workflows, such as graphql-config or the GraphQL CLI.

If you want to dive deeper and become part of the awesome GraphQL community, here are a few resource and community recommendations for you:


Resources
=========
GraphQL Boilerplates: Starter kits for your next project (backend-only and fullstack)
Prisma Blog: The blog regularly features new and interesting content about GraphQL, from community news to technical deep dives and various tutorials.
GraphQL Weekly: A weekly GraphQL newsletter with news from the GraphQL ecosystem
GraphQL Radio: A podcast where active members from the GraphQL community are interviewed about their work
GraphQL Europe: Europe’s biggest gathering of GraphQL enthusiasts happening in the heart of Berlin
Prisma Slack: A Slack team with vivid discussions around everything GraphQL & Prisma