About the Schema Definition Language (SDL)
==========================================
https://blog.graph.cool/graphql-sdl-schema-definition-language-6755bcb9ce51
https://graphql.org/learn/schema/


Type
====
The most basic components of a GraphQL schema are object types, which just represent a kind of object you can fetch from your service, and what fields it has. In the GraphQL schema language, we might represent it like this:

type Character {
  name: String!
  appearsIn: [Episode]!
}

The language is pretty readable, but let's go over it so that we can have a shared vocabulary:

* Character is a GraphQL Object Type, meaning it's a type with some fields. Most of the types in your schema will be object types.
* name and appearsIn are fields on the Character type. That means that name and appearsIn are the only fields that can appear in any part of a GraphQL query that operates on the Character type.
* String is one of the built-in scalar types - these are types that resolve to a single scalar object, and can't have sub-selections in the query. We'll go over scalar types more later.
* String! means that the field is non-nullable, meaning that the GraphQL service promises to always give you a value when you query this field. In the type language, we'll represent those with an exclamation mark.
* [Episode]! represents an array of Episode objects. Since it is also non-nullable, you can always expect an array (with zero or more items) when you query the appearsIn field.

Now you know what a GraphQL object type looks like, and how to read the basics of the GraphQL type language.


Scalar Types
============
The GraphQL spec defines some built-in scalar values but more can be defined by a concrete implementation. The built in scalar types are:

* Int: A signed 32‐bit integer.
* Float: A signed double-precision floating-point value.
* String: A UTF‐8 character sequence.
* Boolean: true or false.
* ID: The ID scalar type represents a unique identifier, often used to refetch an object or as the key for a cache. The ID type is serialized in the same way as a String; however, defining it as an ID signifies that it is not intended to be human‐readable.

In addition to scalar types, a field can use any other type defined in the schema definition.

Field
=====
A field has a name and a type:

age: Int

Non-nullable fields
-------------------
Non-nullable fields are denoted by an exclamation mark:

age: Int!

Lists
-----
Lists are denoted by square brackets:

names: [String!]

### Combining lists and non nulls
The Non-Null and List modifiers can be combined. For example, you can have a List of Non-Null Strings:

myField: [String!]
This means that the list itself can be null, but it can't have any null members. For example, in JSON:

myField: null // valid
myField: [] // valid
myField: ['a', 'b'] // valid
myField: ['a', null, 'b'] // error

Now, let's say we defined a Non-Null List of Strings:
myField: [String]!
This means that the list itself cannot be null, but it can contain null values:

myField: null // error
myField: [] // valid
myField: ['a', 'b'] // valid
myField: ['a', null, 'b'] // valid

You can arbitrarily nest any number of Non-Null and List modifiers, according to your needs.



Field arguments
---------------
Every field on a GraphQL object type can have zero or more arguments, for example the length field below:

type Starship {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  length(unit: LengthUnit = METER): Float
}
All arguments are named. Unlike languages like JavaScript and Python where functions take a list of ordered arguments, all arguments in GraphQL are passed by name specifically. In this case, the length field has one defined argument, unit.


### Default values for arguments
Arguments can be either required or optional. When an argument is optional, we can define a default value.

i.e.
type Query {
  allUsers: [User!]!
}
We could add an argument to the allUsers field that allows us to pass an argument to filter users and include only those above a certain age. We also specify a default value so that by default all users will be returned:

 type Query {
  allUsers(olderThan: Int = -1): [User!]!
}

This olderThan argument can now be passed into the query using the following syntax:

 {
  allUsers(olderThan: 30) {
    name
    age
  }
}

Entry Point types
=================
Most types in your schema will just be normal object types, but there are three types that are special within a schema:

schema {
  query: Query
  mutation: Mutation
  subscription: Subscription
}

Every GraphQL service has a query type and may or may not have a mutation and / or subscription type. These types are the same as a regular object type, but they are special because they define the entry point of every GraphQL query. 

It's important to remember that other than the special status of being the "entry point" into the schema, the Entry Point types types are the same as any other GraphQL object type, and their fields work exactly the same way.

Queries
-------
So if you see a query that looks like:

query {
  hero {
    name
  }
  droid(id: "2000") {
    name
  }
}

{
  "data": {
    "hero": {
      "name": "R2-D2"
    },
    "droid": {
      "name": "C-3PO"
    }
  }
}
That means that the GraphQL service needs to have a Query type with hero and droid fields:

type Query {
  hero(episode: Episode): Character
  droid(id: ID!): Droid
}

Mutations
---------
Mutations work in a similar way - you define fields on the Mutation type, and those are available as the root mutation fields you can call in your query.

Subscriptions
-------------
Another important requirement for many applications today is to have a realtime connection to the server in order to get immediately informed about important events. For this use case, GraphQL offers the concept of subscriptions.

When a client subscribes to an event, it will initiate and hold a steady connection to the server. Whenever that particular event then actually happens, the server pushes the corresponding data to the client. Unlike queries and mutations that follow a typical “request-response-cycle”, subscriptions represent a stream of data sent over to the client.

Subscriptions are written using the same syntax as queries and mutations. Here’s an example where we subscribe on events happening on the Person type:

 subscription {
  newPerson {
    name
    age
  }
}
After a client sent this subscription to a server, a connection is opened between them. Then, whenever a new mutation is performed that creates a new Person, the server sends the information about this person over to the client:

 {
  "newPerson": {
    "name": "Jane",
    "age": 23
  }
}


Enum
====
An enum is a scalar value that has a specified set of possible values:

enum Category {
  PROGRAMMING_LANGUAGES,
  API_DESIGN
}


Interface
=========
Like many type systems, GraphQL supports interfaces. An Interface is an abstract type that includes a certain set of fields that a type must include to implement the interface.

For example, you could have an interface Character that represents any character in the Star Wars trilogy:

interface Character {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  friends: [Character]
  appearsIn: [Episode]!
}

This means that any type that implements Character needs to have these exact fields, with these arguments and return types.

For example, here are some types that might implement Character:

type Human implements Character {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  friends: [Character]
  appearsIn: [Episode]!
  starships: [Starship]
  totalCredits: Int
}

type Droid implements Character {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  friends: [Character]
  appearsIn: [Episode]!
  primaryFunction: String
}

You can see that both of these types have all of the fields from the Character interface, but also bring in extra fields, totalCredits, starships and primaryFunction, that are specific to that particular type of character.

Interfaces are useful when you want to return an object or set of objects, but those might be of several different types.


Union types 
===========
Union types are very similar to interfaces, but they don't get to specify any common fields between the types.

union SearchResult = Human | Droid | Starship
Wherever we return a SearchResult type in our schema, we might get a Human, a Droid, or a Starship. Note that members of a union type need to be concrete object types; you can't create a union type out of interfaces or other unions.

In this case, if you query a field that returns the SearchResult union type, you need to use a conditional fragment to be able to query any fields at all:


{
  search(text: "an") {
    ... on Human {
      name
      height
    }
    ... on Droid {
      name
      primaryFunction
    }
    ... on Starship {
      name
      length
    }
  }
}

{
  "data": {
    "search": [
      {
        "name": "Han Solo",
        "height": 1.8
      },
      {
        "name": "Leia Organa",
        "height": 1.5
      },
      {
        "name": "TIE Advanced x1",
        "length": 9.2
      }
    ]
  }
}

Input types
===========
So far, we've only talked about passing scalar values, like enums or strings, as arguments into a field. But you can also easily pass complex objects. This is particularly valuable in the case of mutations, where you might want to pass in a whole object to be created. In the GraphQL schema language, input types look exactly the same as regular object types, but with the keyword input instead of type:

input ReviewInput {
  stars: Int!
  commentary: String
}
Here is how you could use the input object type in a mutation:


mutation CreateReviewForEpisode($ep: Episode!, $review: ReviewInput!) {
  createReview(episode: $ep, review: $review) {
    stars
    commentary
  }
}

{
  "ep": "JEDI",
  "review": {
    "stars": 5,
    "commentary": "This is a great movie!"
  }
}

{
  "data": {
    "createReview": {
      "stars": 5,
      "commentary": "This is a great movie!"
    }
  }
}

The fields on an input object type can themselves refer to input object types, but you can't mix input and output types in your schema. Input object types also can't have arguments on their fields.



Schema directive
================
A directive allows you to attach arbitrary information to any other schema definition element. Directives are always placed behind the element they describe:

name: String! @defaultValue(value: "new blogpost")
Directives don’t have intrinsic meaning. Each GraphQL implementation can define their own custom directives that add new functionality.

GraphQL specifies built-in skip and include directives that can be used to include or exclude specific fields in queries, but these aren't used in the schema language.


Fragments
=========
A fragment is a collection of fields on a specific type, helpful for reusing in queries.

Let’s assume we have the following type:

 type User {
  name: String!
  age: Int!
  email: String!
  street: String!
  zipcode: String!
  city: String!
}
Here, we could represent all the information that relates to the user’s physical address into a fragment:

 fragment addressDetails on User {
  name
  street
  zipcode
  city
}
Now, when writing a query to access the address information of a user, we can use the following syntax to refer to the fragment and save the work to actually spell out the four fields:

 {
  allUsers {
    ... addressDetails
  }
}
This query is equivalent to writing:

 {
  allUsers {
    name
    street
    zipcode
    city
  }
}

Aliasing queries
================
If we're asking for multiplu values of the same type, we may run into issues:

{
  User(id: "1") {
    name
  }
  User(id: "2") {
    name
  }
}
In fact, this will produce an error with a GraphQL server, since it’s the same field but different arguments. The only way to send a query like that would be to use aliases, i.e. specifying names for the query results:

 {
  first: User(id: "1") {
    name
  }
  second: User(id: "2") {
    name
  }
}
In the result, the server would now name each User object according to the specified alias:

 {
  "first": {
    "name": "Alice"
  },
  "second": {
    "name": "Sarah"
  }
}


Introspection
=============
The designers of the schema already know what the schema looks like but how can clients discover what is accessible through a GraphQL API? We can ask GraphQL for this information by querying the __schema meta-field, which is always available on the root type of a Query per the spec.

 query {
  __schema {
    types {
      name
    }
  }
}
Take this schema definition for example:

 type Query {
  author(id: ID!): Author
}

type Author {
  posts: [Post!]!
}

type Post {
  title: String!
}
If we were to send the introspection query mentioned above, we would get the following result:

 {
  "data": {
    "__schema": {
      "types": [
        {
          "name": "Query"
        },
        {
          "name": "Author"
        },
        {
          "name": "Post"
        },
        {
          "name": "ID"
        },
        {
          "name": "String"
        },
        {
          "name": "__Schema"
        },
        {
          "name": "__Type"
        },
        {
          "name": "__TypeKind"
        },
        {
          "name": "__Field"
        },
        {
          "name": "__InputValue"
        },
        {
          "name": "__EnumValue"
        },
        {
          "name": "__Directive"
        },
        {
          "name": "__DirectiveLocation"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
As you can see, we queried for all types on the schema. We get both the object types we defined and scalar types. We can even introspect the introspection types!

There’s much more than name available on introspection types. Here’s another example:

 {
  __type(name: "Author") {
    name
    description
  }
}
In this example, we query a single type using the __type meta-field and we ask for its name and description. Here’s the result for this query:

 {
  "data": {
    "__type": {
      "name": "Author",
      "description": "The author of a post.",
    }
  }
}
As you can see, introspection is an extremely powerful feature of GraphQL, and we’ve only scratched the surface. The specification goes into much more detail about what fields and types are available in the introspection schema.

A lot of tools available in the GraphQL ecosystem use the introspection system to provide amazing features. Think of documentation browsers, autocomplete, code generation, everything is possible! One of the most useful tools you will need as you build and use GraphQL APIs uses introspection heavily. It is called GraphiQL.

Implementing Resolvers
======================
When using GraphQL.js, each of the fields on a type in the GraphQLSchema object can have a resolve function attached to it. Let’s consider our example from above, in particular the user field on the Query type — here we can add a simple resolve function as follows:
<pre>
const schema = new GraphQLSchema({
  query: new GraphQLObjectType({
    name: 'Query',
    fields: {
      user: {
        type: UserType,
        args: {
          id: { type: GraphQLID }
        },
        resolve: (root, args, context, info) => {
          const { id } = args      // the `id` argument for this field is declared above
          return fetchUserById(id) // hit the database
        }
      }
    }
  })
})
</pre>

Assuming a function fetchUserById is actually available and returns a User instance (a JS object with id and name fields), the resolve function now enables execution of the schema.

Before we dive deeper, let’s take a second to understand the four arguments passed into the resolver:

root (also sometimes called parent)
-----------------------------------
Remember how we said all a GraphQL server needs to do to resolve a query is calling the resolvers of the query’s fields? Well, it’s doing so breadth-first (level-by-level) and the root argument in each resolver call is simply the result of the previous call (initial value is null if not otherwise specified).


args
----
This argument carries the parameters for the query, in this case the id of the User to be fetched.


context
-------
An object that gets passed through the resolver chain that each resolver can write to and read from (basically a means for resolvers to communicate and share information).


info
----
https://www.prisma.io/blog/graphql-server-basics-demystifying-the-info-argument-in-graphql-resolvers-6f26249f613a/ 
An AST representation of the query or mutation. 

To learn more about what query ASTs look like, be sure to check out Christian Joudrey’s fantastic article Life of a GraphQL Query — Lexing/Parsing as well as Eric Baer’s brilliant talk GraphQL Under the Hood.

To understand the structure of info, let’s take a look at its Flow type definition:
<pre>
/* @flow */
export type GraphQLResolveInfo = {
  fieldName: string;
  fieldNodes: Array<FieldNode>;
  returnType: GraphQLOutputType;
  parentType: GraphQLCompositeType;
  path: ResponsePath;
  schema: GraphQLSchema;
  fragments: { [fragmentName: string]: FragmentDefinitionNode };
  rootValue: mixed;
  operation: OperationDefinitionNode;
  variableValues: { [variableName: string]: mixed };
};
</pre>

Here’s an overview and quick explanation for each of these keys:
### fieldName
As mentioned before, each field in your GraphQL schema needs to be backed by a resolver. The fieldName contains the name for the field that belongs to the current resolver.

### fieldNodes
An array where each object represents a field in the remaining selection set.

### returnType
The GraphQL type of the corresponding field.

### parentType
The GraphQL type to which this field belongs.

### path
Keeps track of the fields that were traversed until the current field (i.e. resolver) was reached.

### schema
The GraphQLSchema instance representing your executable schema.

### fragments
A map of fragments that were part of the query document.

###rootValue
The rootValue argument that was passed to the execution.

### operation
The AST of the entire query.

### variableValues
A map of any variables that were provided along with the query corresponds to the variableValues argument.

### Field-specific vs Global
There is one interesting observation to be made regarding the keys above. A key on the info object is either field-specific or global.

Field-specific simply means that the value for that key depends on the field (and its backing resolver) to which the info object is passed. Obvious examples are fieldName, rootType and parentType. Consider the author field of the following GraphQL type:
<pre>
type Query {
  author: User!
  feed: [Post!]!
}
</pre>

The fieldName for that field is just author, the returnType is User! and the parentType is Query.

Now, for feed these values will of course be different: the fieldName is feed, returnType is [Post!]! and the parentType is also Query.

So, the values for these three keys are field-specific. Further field-specific keys are: fieldNodes and path. Effectively, the first five keys of the Flow definition above are field-specific.

Global, on the other hand, means the values for these keys won’t change — no matter which resolver we’re talking about. schema, fragments, rootValue, operation and variableValues will always carry the same values for all resolvers.


Prisma specific info
====================
https://www.prisma.io/docs/reference/service-configuration/data-model/data-modelling-(sdl)-eiroozae8u/