Step 1: Install Docker
======================
This tutorial teaches you how to build a Prisma server that's running locally on your machine. The server is based on Docker, be sure to have it installed before moving on with the tutorial.

## 1
If you don't have Docker installed already, download it for your platform.

## 2
Once the installer was downloaded, double-click on it and follow the instructions for the installation on your platform.

Step 2: Install the Prisma CLI
==============================
Prisma services are managed with the Prisma CLI. You can install it using npm (or yarn).

## 3
Open your terminal and run the following command to install the Prisma CLI:
<pre>
npm install -g prisma
# or
# yarn global add prisma
</pre>

Step 3: Create your Prisma server
=================================
In this tutorial, you'll create all the files for your Prisma setup manually.
## 4
Open a terminal and navigate to a folder of your choice and create a new directory to store the files for your Prisma project:
<pre>mkdir hello-world</pre>

## 5
Next, navigate into the new directory and create the Docker compose file that specifies the Docker images for your Prisma server and its MySQL database:
<pre>
cd hello-world
touch docker-compose.yml
</pre>

## 6
Now paste the following contents into it:
<pre>
version: '3'
services:
  prisma:
    image: prismagraphql/prisma:1.11
    restart: always
    ports:
    - "4466:4466"
    environment:
      PRISMA_CONFIG: |
        port: 4466
        # uncomment the next line and provide the env var PRISMA_MANAGEMENT_API_SECRET=my-secret to activate cluster security
        # managementApiSecret: my-secret
        databases:
          default:
            connector: mysql
            host: mysql
            port: 3306
            user: root
            password: prisma
            migrations: true
  mysql:
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: always
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: prisma
    volumes:
      - mysql:/var/lib/mysql
volumes:
  mysql:
</pre>

To learn more about the structure of this Docker compose file, check out the reference documentation.

## 7
With the Docker compose file in place, go ahead and start the Docker containers using the docker-compose CLI:
<pre>docker-compose up -d</pre>

Your Prisma server is now running on http://localhost:4466 which means you can now start deploying Prisma services to it using the Prisma CLI.

Step 4: Create your Prisma service
==================================
The minimal setup you need for creating a Prisma service consists of two files:
prisma.yml: The root configuration file for your service.
datamodel.graphql (can also be called differently, e.g. types.graphql): This file contains the definition of your data model (written in GraphQL SDL).

## 8
Create both files by running the following commands in your terminal:
<pre>
touch prisma.yml
touch datamodel.graphql
</pre>

## 9
Next, open prisma.yml and paste the following contents into it:
<pre>
endpoint: http://localhost:4466
datamodel: datamodel.graphql
</pre>

## 10
To complete the setup, open datamodel.graphql and add the following User type to it:
<pre>
type User{
  id: ID! @unique
  name: String!
}
</pre>

The @unique directive here expresses that no two User records in the database can have the same id. Prisma will ensure this requirement is met at all times.

Step 5: Deploy your Prisma service to a Demo server
===================================================
So far you only have the local service configuration files for your Prisma service available, but you haven't deployed anything to the Prisma server that's running on your machine yet.

## 11
Run the following command to deploy the Prisma service to your local Prisma server:
<pre>prisma deploy</pre>

Your Prisma API is now deployed and ready to receive your queries, mutations and subscriptions 🎉
